[MUSIC]
>> Nina Zakharenko: Functions in
JavaScript are a way of kind of grouping
a bunch of things together,
you wanna do over and
over into a way where it's
easy of repeating them,
like the same action that's contained
in the function multiple times.
So, the anatomy of a function.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Here's the variable
that we're assigning it to.
You can also create a function
in different syntax, but
we're not gonna cover it today.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We use the keyword
function along with parentheses.
And inside those parentheses,
you're gonna put what's called
arguments to your function.
So it can be one thing, or
a list of things that are comma-separated.
And what these variables are gonna do is
be accessible inside of your function.
So you're passing something
into the function,
the function does something to that thing.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We have an open
curly brace and close curly brace and
a semicolon at the end
to end the function.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
then we're at this arrow here at the left,
everything inside those brackets
is the body of the function,
that's what's gonna get
run when it's called.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So when we declare a
function, it's different from a statement.
So far we've had a bunch of lines of
code and they're executed one by one.
If there's a if and the condition
is at met, for example, it skipped.
But when we declare a function this way,
we have a variable called printList and
this function is put in it so
we can use it later.
But nothing inside that statement
is actually going to get run
until we explicitly call the function.
The way that we call a function is
by putting the function name and
then open parenthesis if
the function has no parameters,
so this up here is empty,
you don't have to pass anything in,
otherwise you wanna pass in the number of
variables that this function is expecting.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
let's do an exercise here.
We have our very familiar list of fruits,
[LAUGH] down here we
have,
>> Nina Zakharenko: We
have a function called printList.
So this function takes the list.
It loops over it in a four loop.
And it'll output a list of
values contained in that list.
So let's do an exercise.
Let's add two more lists.
We're gonna do one of
your favorite cars and
one of your favorite ice cream flavors.
And let's call printList on your new list.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So I'm gonna give
you guys a few minutes for that one.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So I'm gonna
start working along with you guys.
>> Speaker 2: There is a question
about if a, is there any way for
a function to take a specific type only?
>> Nina Zakharenko: No, with JavaScript,
but what you can do is,
inside of your function you can call
type of, or do some other sort of check,
make sure that what's getting passed
into your function is what you expect,
if it's not, you can just throw an error.
And that's a good way to validate and
circumvent something worse going wrong.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Does
everyone see that same result?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
let's go ahead and modify our function.
So, outside of this four loop,
we don't want it to happen over and
over and over,
let's add a new document.write,
let's say ('These are a few
of my favorite things").
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
add one more ("<br>") in there just so
we can break up our results.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So now after every
list you should see these are a few of my
favorite things.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So everyone-
>> Speaker 3: Write like a plus and
then br, these are a few of my
favorite things plus br [INAUDIBLE].
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah,
you can do that too.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
everyone see these results?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So let's go up and
modify our function again, so, right now,
am conveniently printing stuff out, which
is great cuz I get to see it right away.
But, a lot of functions
are kind of functional, so
we're not using them to print stuff out,
you're using them to do something.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
let's clear these things out.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's do let's say,
a little bit of validation.
So let's use our handy if statement.
And say if (list.length is < 3),
and here we're gonna introduce
the return statement.
So we're gonna return not enough elements.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So, what returned
us is it ends the execution in
that function and pops out of it and
whoever called it is
gonna get back what your passing
in the return statement.
So we have our validation here.
If a list is less than three,
nothing after this return will get run.
But if our list is greater than three,
let's go ahead and
return the very first element in it.
>> Nina Zakharenko: This
example is kind of contrived.
Probably wanna do a little bit more to
it than just return the first element.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So now we're storing
the result of this function printList into
this variable return value.
And after we've done all our calculations,
now we can just say document.write.
>> Nina Zakharenko: This will go ahead and
return that first element in the list.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Another thing we
can do is call the function inside of
document.write which is
just another function so
in these parentheses we
can just say printList.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's do cars.
This kind of implicitly calls
the printList function on this cars value.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Oops, sorry you guys.
I messed up here.
It should be return list of 0 and
not fruits of 0.
Cuz then you're just always
gonna get the same fruit.
So now this is the value
that we expect to have.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So anyone have
questions about the different ways of
calling functions?
Why these two things return,
do the same thing?
>> Speaker 4: We didn't go over, why
printList is called before document.write.
>> Nina Zakharenko: It's a good point.
So in lots of programming languages,
things are nested by a parentheses.
And the thing that's in
the innermost parentheses
is going to get executed first.
So, cars gets executed,
it doesn't really, nothing really
happens because it's just the list.
Then printList gets executed and
passed into document.write,
so let's say I have another function.
>> Nina Zakharenko: I'm gonna
call it concatValues function.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Actually,
I'm gonna call it concatLists function, so
I am gonna take a list1 and
a list2, and I am gonna return.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Sorry,
that's concat not contact.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Here we go.
So I can nest this even deeper and
say, document.write,
the result of printList,
printList gets called on the result of,
can call this concatListFunc and
call it on our fruits and our cars.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And
wait for CodePen to update.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah, so
here are just returning the first item.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And we can go
ahead and mix these up a little bit.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
now that returns subaru instead of peach.
>> Speaker 2: There's a question on
real world usage of anonymous functions.
Would you recommend naming
all your functions or
using anonymous functions
in some of these?
>> Nina Zakharenko: I
think naming functions and
being explicit is a lot better
than having anonymous functions
because JavaScript there's this thing
called hoisting, and if you're not
setting your functions to a variable,
things can kind of happen out of order.
So you can call a function
before it's declared.
I consider it a source of mistakes.
>> Speaker 4: There are instances where it
makes sense to use anonymous functions and
tomorrow morning we're gonna go over
one of them which is using jQuery and
event listeners.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
typically this JavaScript code
would say in the body of the HTML?
Is that where it would live?
I mean.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Not necessarily.
And we're gonna go over this when we go
about, when we talk about paths tomorrow.
So your JavaScript would live
in a JavaScript file and
your CSS would live in a CSS file or
multiples of them.
And then in your HTML,
you would reference those files.
And the browser is gonna take care
of smooshing it all together.
>> Speaker 4: So in add function is
obviously you can call functions from
within the JavaScript.
But how does the JavaScript tie
in with events on the page itself
with button clicks or
mouse movement, things like that?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
it depends on the kind of event but
tomorrow we're gonna talk about jQuery,
and in order to use jQuery,
we need to include the jQuery
file at the top of our HTML.
So what that actually kinda does
behind the scenes is takes that giant
jQuery file and paste it into your HTML
file, which means that in your HTML,
like or anything that really
comes after that jQuery include,
you can reference things before it.
>> Speaker 4: And that has access
then to the page [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Nina Zakharenko: Yeah.